Latest On Going Project: SNOW BOARDING

Class 1:

    Game Mechanics We need:

        Move along the track
        Rotate forwards and backwards
        Ability to speed up
        Particle effects that only play when we’er touching ground
        Finish line that restarts level
        Crash detection which restarts the level
    —————————————————————-
    Game Design:

        Smooth, relaxing
    —————————————————————-
    Core Mechanics :

        Don’t crash
    —————————————————————-
    Game Loop:

        Reach the end to win
    —————————————————————-
    Characters name:

        Zara
    ______________________
    Topics covered:
        a. Sprite shape: closed shape
            i. Create a new sprite profiler inside Assets/Sprites to avoid affecting the in built sprite profiler : snow profiler

            ii. We will create a 2D closed shape sprite shape and inside the Sprite Shape Controller script, we will add our own created snow profiler than the built in one : Level Sprite Shape

            iii. Inside snow profiler we will add snow tile low res from our added sprite into Sprites. (Added similar color in textures to match the whole profiler color)

            iv. We can got to edit spline, it will help us to do the magic to change the shape whatever way we want, which is very useful to built the platform.
        b. Use of EdgeColliders:
            i. Click on Level Sprite Shape

            ii. Add Component -> Edge Collider [To wrap the shape of each and every edge and curve to be as collider]

            iii. If we want to increase the height of snow : Edge Spline -> Select all points/splines -> adjust the height

        c. Cinemachine:
            It is a powerful package that lets us:
                1. manage multiple cameras in our scene
                2. easily create rules for our camera
            What we have done is we have added a "Cinemachine Brain" in our Main Camera where in Cinemachine brain we can point different cameras for different purposes, like following objects, zooming, and focusing like that.

            How to add a package:
                i. Windows on the top menu bar
                ii. Package Manager
                iii. Unity Registry
                iv. Search Cinemachine
                v. Install Cinemachine
            
            How to add Virtual Camera to follow the snow boarder:
                i. Right click in Sample Scenes
                ii. Add Virtual Camera (Old way) and enable follow and add       snowBoarder as Main focus. Add Framing Transposer as body
                    or 
                    Add a Follow Camera and add snow boarder as main focus

                iii. Add CinemachineBrain in main camera if not added by default

        d. Snow Boarder as Character : In my case she is Zara
                i. Create an empty component
                ii. Add the rigid body feature in it
                iii. Add parts of body under empty component from sprites added
                iv. Add capsule collider component on skate board to make skate board move on snow
        
        e. Surface Effector 2D:
                The surface effector 2D applies tangent forces along the surfaces of colliders used by the effector in an attempt to match a specified speed along the surface. Like a Conveyor Belt.

            How to apply it?
                i. Go to level sprite shape
                ii. Add Component Surface Effector 2D
                iii. Set the flag true in Edge Collider Component for "Use By Effector"
            
            Note: in snow boarder collision for snow board make Collision detection as Continuous
            




            




